Now that you've learned a little more about
the imaging workflow and where machine learning can fit in.
Let's talk about the main types of machine learning algorithms that can be developed,
and for what clinical indications they might be applied.
Machine learning can be used for many different reasons as 2D imaging.
You may want to determine whether or not a structure in an image is healthy,
where an abnormality in an image is or the area of a tumor.
These require all different types of algorithms.
The first type of machine learning algorithm we will talk about here is classification.
Classification algorithms assess a whole image and return
an output stating whether or not a disease or a finding exists in the image.
For example, an algorithm intended to diagnose images for lung nodules
would read this image and return one of two outputs nodules or no nodules.
If the algorithm is accurate,
it would output the results of nodules sense there is a nodule in the image.
Classification algorithms can be used for binary or multi-class classification or
a single algorithm can classify for the presence or
absence of multiple types of findings or diseases.
Note that the radiologist or
the diagnosing clinician could be the end user of a classification algorithm.
If we create an algorithm that is so good at
diagnosing based on an image that we no longer need a radiologist,
then the diagnosing clinician could be our only end-user.
But in 2020, we're not there yet,
and so the radiologist is usually going to be your primary end-user.
The second type of machine learning algorithm that
we are going to talk about is segmentation.
Segmentation algorithms identify specific pixels
in an image that contain a structure or a finding.
For example, a segmentation algorithm intended to identify nodules in
this image would return a set of colored pixels that contain the presence of the nodule.
This algorithm creates a border around the nodule that allows us to calculate its area.
Segmentation algorithms are typically used to measure the size of a particular finding,
or its a count, the number of findings in an image.
For example, they are often used to count cells in microscopy data,
where each cell in an image is segmented individually.
Again, radiologists are most likely the end-user of segmentation algorithms.
The last type of machine learning algorithm we'll talk about here is localization.
Localization algorithms identify the area
of an image that contain a structure or a finding.
They output a set of coordinates that create a bounding box around that finding.
For example, a localization algorithm intended to aid
radiologists in determining where the nodule is in this image,
would output a box around the nodule.
These localization algorithms can be very useful for drawing
radiologists attention to certain types of
findings that are difficult to see on an image.
Again, radiologists will be your end-user for localization algorithms.